---
title: Talos
date: 2018-01-10 00:00:00 Z
categories:
- user experience research
- user experience design
- user interface design
- featured
layout: post
timeline: Winter 2017
tools: Sketch
client: Narrative Science
cover: img-post-cover-3.jpg
---


<h4 class="heading heading--regular heading--emphasize">overview</h4>
<div class="marker-post-heading"></div>
<p>
	Data is being gathered by companies daily and is an essential component to growth. However, the average business person does not have the resources to quickly make data-driven decisions. The goal of the Talos initiative is to provide an intelligent self-service tool that uses data to generate interactive stories at scale. By instantly surfacing key insights in plain language, Talos equips consumers at every level of an organization with the information necessary to make data-driven decisions. 
</p>

<div class="post__casestudy">

	<h4 class="heading heading--regular heading--emphasize post__heading--stacked">understand</h4>
	<div class="marker-post-heading"></div>
	<h3 class="heading heading--fancy">Bringing insights directly to the end-user</h3>
	<p>
		The Talos initiative was launched in the winter of 2017. Through experience working with customers of other products in Narrative Science’s portfolio, we had already begun to identify a prevalent business problem -- that companies weren’t utilizing the mass amounts of data gathered daily to its fullest extent. Further observation of potential and existing customer workflows not only validated this initial assertion, but uncovered problem touchpoint within the workflows of organization members who were required to interact with data on a daily basis.

	</p>
	</p>
		We listed out our key assumptions and questions to explicitly set a scope on our product goals:
	</p>
	<ul>
		<li>Business people rely heavily on business analysts to package data into reports and Business Intelligence (BI) dashboards.</li>
		<li>Business analysts are often strapped for time and do not have the resources to manually create custom reports for business people.</li>
		<li>BI dashboards are tailored towards analysts and not the end-user; business people have trouble translating the predominantly visual output into actionable insights.</li>
		<li>Business people want to dive deeper into insights but must rely on business analysts to do so -- a process that is often inefficient and time-consuming.</li>
	</ul>
	<p>
		Further, we bubbled up our learnings from observing these users into three user archetypes:
	</p>
	<ul>
		<li>The Consumer</li>
		<li>The Producer</li>
		<li>The Consumer</li>
	</ul>

	<h4 class="heading heading--regular heading--emphasize post__heading--stacked">create & test</h4>
	<div class="marker-post-heading"></div>
	<h3 class="heading heading--fancy">Innovating to fill in the gaps</h3>
	<p>
		While journey mapping helped us define a vision of an overall redesign, creating a user task flow helped us interject the user into the system in a more concrete way.
	</p>
	<p>
		To prioritize our design, we identified three main tasks we wanted users to complete:
	</p>
	<ul>
		<li>Track and sort student works</li>
		<li>Give feedback to students on works</li>
		<li>Curate works into a custom showcase</li>
	</ul>
	<p>
		With these tasks in mind, we conducted several rounds of brainstorming and ideation, from which we were able to abstract key concepts and ideas and create paper prototypes. Following a few rounds of informal testing and qualitative data analysis, we were able to develop three sets of interactive prototypes.
	</p>
	<p>
		Formal testing revealed that educators were used to more traditional web interfaces and preferred performing tedious tasks on familiar interfaces over learning to navigate new layouts. Although we did not intend for Seelio to become an LMS, we realized that it was imperative that we include familiar LMS keywords such as “Assignment” and “Grade.” 
	</p>
	<p>
		Following several rounds of testing, debriefing, and design iteration, we were able to consolidate our prototypes to one final design.
	</p>

	<h4 class="heading heading--regular heading--emphasize post__heading--stacked">outcome</h4>
	<div class="marker-post-heading"></div>
	<h3 class="heading heading--fancy">A streamlined & flexible web experience</h3>
	<p>
	</p>
	<p>
		Over the course of a few weeks, I designed a complete set of responsive, hi-fidelity mockups using Adobe Photoshop CS6. I communicated the designs and interactions to our development team using Trello, Google Docs, and Invision.
	</p>
</div>

<h4 class="heading heading--regular heading--emphasize post__heading--stacked">my role</h4>
<div class="marker-post-heading"></div>
<ul>
	<li>Ethnography of partner university faculty and administrators to understand classroom teaching practices and develop user personas, user scenarios, and customer journey map.</li>
	<li>Compiled key concepts from research and ideation into low-fidelity paper wireframes and interactive prototypes.</li>
	<li>Tested interactive prototypes on users using InVision and Axure RP and performed qualitative data analysis. Iteratively improved designs based on user findings.</li>
	<li>Established visual hierarchy and designed complete set of responsive, pixpel-perfect mockups using Adobe Photoshop.</li>
	<li>Communicated design specifications and interactions to development team using Trello, Google Documents, and InVision.</li>
</ul>

<div class="container__button">
	<a id="showcasestudy" class="button__case-study heading heading--regular heading--emphasize" href="#">Show Case Study</a>
</div>



